./Copyright (c) 2009, Los Alamos National Security, LLC All rights reserved.
./Copyright 2009. Los Alamos National Security, LLC. This software was produced
./under U.S. Government contract DE-AC52-06NA25396 for Los Alamos National
./Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by Los Alamos National Security, LLC for
./the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has rights to use,
./reproduce, and distribute this software.  NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT NOR LOS
./ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR
./ASSUMES ANY LIABILITY FOR THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.  If software is
./modified to produce derivative works, such modified software should be
./clearly marked, so as not to confuse it with the version available from LANL.
./
./Additionally, redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
./without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
./met:
./
./Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
./list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
./
./Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
./this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
./and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
./
./Neither the name of Los Alamos National Security, LLC, Los Alamos National
./Laboratory, LANL, the U.S. Government, nor the names of its contributors may be
./used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
./prior written permission.
./
./THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC AND CONTRIBUTORS
./"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
./THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
./ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC OR
./CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
./EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
./OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
./INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
./CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
./IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
./OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
./

.TH pfls 1 14-Apr-2015 https://github.com/pftool Programs

.SH NAME
pfls \- list files and directories in parallel

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pfls
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] sourcePath

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pfls
lists files or directories from a source mount point.
.PP
pfls is a wrapper around the pftool application, which is a load balanced, highly
parallel utility on one node or across multiple nodes. It can walk the file system
tree in parallel, move data between file systems, and move small files in parallel
or break-up big files to move them in parallel for any POSIX file system.
.PP
.B If pfls is interrupted while listing, it can be restarted and continue the listing
.B operation from where it was interrupted. By listing in parallel and being able to
.B restart from an interruption, pfls offers a HUGE advantage over a normal ls.
.PP
If the operation completes successfully, you will see a line in the output that will
contain this text:
.P
.B """INFO FOOTER""" message that says """NONFATAL ERRORS = 0"""
.PP
If the NONFATAL ERRORS is anything but 0 (zero), then you will need to restart the
operation and pftool will continue the operation for those files not yet processed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \fB\-\-help\fR
show this help message and exit
.TP
.BR \-R
list directories recursively
.TP
.BR \-v
verbose result output
.TP
.BR \-i " " \fIINPUT_LIST\fR
input file list

.SH AUTHORS
pftool and its wrapper scripts are developed at Los Alamos National Laboratory and are
available under LANL LA-CC-2012-072. They are hosted at https://github.com/pftool.
